# 2015 Allsvenskan

The **2015 Allsvenskan** , part of the 2015 Swedish football season was the 91st season of Allsvenskan since its establishment in 1924. The 2015 fixtures were released on 21 January 2015. The season started on 4 April 2015, when BK Häcken visited newly promoted Hammarby IF at Tele2 Arena and ended on 31 October 2015. Malmö FF were the defending champions from the 2014 season.

A total of 16 teams contested the league; 14 returning from the 2014 season and two that were promoted from Superettan.

IFK Norrköping became champions on 31 October 2015, after a 2–0 defeat over defending champions Malmö FF in the last round. The win helped IFK Norrköping win the league with a margin of three points ahead of IFK Göteborg and five points clear of third-placed team AIK. By winning the league IFK Norrköping qualified for the second qualifying round of 2016–17 UEFA Champions League, while runners-up IFK Göteborg and third-placed AIK will be competing in first qualifying round of 2016–17 UEFA Europa League. The fourth-placed team Elfsborg will also play in Europa League if they or one of the top three teams win 2015–16 Svenska Cupen.

## Summary

### Backgroun

The annual pre-season kick-off meeting is  held at Scandic Infra City in Upplands Väsby on 23 March 2015. Managers and key players from the major teams as well as some of the predicted bottom teams will be interviewed by representatives from the media as well as commentators from C More Entertainment, the official broadcasters of the league.

### Season overview

The season started on 4 April 2015 with two fixtures, an early afternoon fixture between newcomers Hammarby IF and last year's fifth placed team BK Häcken at Tele2 Arena in Stockholm followed by the match between Kalmar FF and Helsingborgs IF at Guldfågeln Arena. The rest of the fixtures of the first round were spread out during the two following days. The defending champions Malmö FF will start the season with an away fixture against newcomers GIF Sundsvall at Norrporten Arena on 6 April 2015. The first few match weeks include a number of high-profile matches, Malmö FF faced last years third placed team AIK in a home fixture on 9 April 2015 and last year's runners-up IFK Göteborg in an away fixture on match day three on 12 April 2015. Matchday seven featured both a Scanian derby between Malmö FF and Helsingborg on 3 May 2015 and a Stockholm derby between AIK and Hammarby on 4 May 2015.

During the 26th round of play, a record was set as the total attendance for the season surpassed 2 million spectators. The previous record of 1,956,042 spectators was set in 1957–58.

### Allsvenskans stora pris

For the third year running, the broadcaster of Allsvenskan, C More Entertainment, hosted an award ceremony where they presented seven awards and two special awards to the players and staff of the 16 Allsvenskan clubs, the award ceremony was held on 5 November 2015. The nominations for the 2015 season were officially announced on 2 November 2015. Nominees are displayed below, the winners are marked in bold text. IFK Norrköping received the most nominations with six nominations while AIK received five nominations and IFK Göteborg received four nominations. Djurgårdens IF and IF Elfsborg received two nominations and Falkenbergs FF and Malmö FF received one nomination each.

**Goalkeeper of the year** 

 - John Alvbåge (IFK Göteborg)
 - Patrik Carlgren (AIK)
 - Kevin Stuhr Ellegaard (IF Elfsborg)

**Defender of the year** 

 - Andreas Johansson (IFK Norrköping)
 - Haitam Aleesami (IFK Göteborg)
 - Emil Salomonsson (IFK Göteborg)

**Midfielder of the year** 

 - Ebenezer Ofori (AIK)
 - Daniel Sjölund (IFK Norrköping)
 - Viktor Claesson (IF Elfsborg)

**Forward of the year** 

 - Emir Kujović (IFK Norrköping)
 - Henok Goitom (AIK)
 - Markus Rosenberg (Malmö FF)

**Newcomer of the year** 

 - Kerim Mrabti (Djurgårdens IF)
 - Sam Johnson (Djurgårdens IF)
 - Gustaf Nilsson (Falkenbergs FF)

**Manager of the year** 

 - Jan Andersson (IFK Norrköping)
 - Jörgen Lennartsson (IFK Göteborg)
 - Andreas Alm (AIK)

**Most valuable player of the year** 

 - Henok Goitom (AIK)
 - Emir Kujović (IFK Norrköping)
 - Andreas Johansson (IFK Norrköping)

## Teams

A total of sixteen teams will contest the league, including fourteen sides from the 2014 season and two promoted teams from the 2014 Superettan. Both of the promoted teams for the 2014 season managed to stay in the league, Falkenbergs FF and Örebro SK.

Mjällby AIF and IF Brommapojkarna were relegated at the end of the 2014 season after finishing in the bottom two places of the table. They were replaced by 2014 Superettan champions Hammarby IF and runners-up GIF Sundsvall. Hammarby returned to Allsvenskan after five years absence, having been relegated at the end of the 2009 season. This was Hammarby's 47th season in the league. Sundsvall returned to Allsvenskan after two years absence, having been relegated at the end of the 2012 season. This was Sundsvall's 15th season in the league.

Gefle IF as 14th-placed team retained their Allsvenskan spot after winning against third-placed Superettan team Ljungskile SK 4–1 on aggregate in a relegation/promotion playoff.

### Stadia and locations

 - 1 According to each club information page at the Swedish Football Association website for Allsvenskan.[10]
 - 2 The capacity of Olympia will be reduced during the season due to major stadium renovations.[11]

### Personnel and kits



 - 1 According to each club information page at the Swedish Football Association website for Allsvenskan.[10]

### Managerial changes

## League tabl

 1. ^ BK Häcken qualified for the Europa League second qualifying round by winning the 2015–16 Svenska Cupen.


## Positions by roun

## Results

## Play-offs

The 14th-placed team of Allsvenskan meets the third-placed team from 2015 Superettan in a Two-legged tie on a home-and-away basis with the team from Allsvenskan finishing at home.

*3–3 on aggregate. Falkenbergs FF won on away goals.* 

## Season statistics

### Top scorers

### Top assists



### Top goalkeepers



### Hat-tricks

### Scoring

 - First goal of the season: Kennedy Bakircioglu for Hammarby IF against BK Häcken (4 April 2015)[25]
 - Largest winning margin: 6 goals[3]
IFK Göteborg 6–0 Örebro SK (2 August 2015)
Falkenbergs FF 6–0 Åtvidabergs FF (18 October 2015)
 - Highest scoring game: 7 goals[3]
AIK 4–3 Falkenbergs FF (3 June 2015)
Malmö FF 4–3 Falkenbergs FF (23 September 2015)
BK Häcken 5–2 IF Elfsborg (25 October 2015)
 - Most goals scored in a match by a single team: 6 goals[3]
IFK Göteborg 6–0 Örebro SK (2 August 2015)
Falkenbergs FF 6–0 Åtvidabergs FF (18 October 2015)
 - Most goals scored in a match by a losing team: 3 goals[3]
AIK 4–3 Falkenbergs FF (3 June 2015)
Malmö FF 4–3 Falkenbergs FF (23 September 2015)
 - Fewest games failed to score in: 2[26]
IFK Norrköping
 - Most games failed to score in: 14[26]
Halmstads BK

 - IFK Göteborg 6–0 Örebro SK (2 August 2015)
 - Falkenbergs FF 6–0 Åtvidabergs FF (18 October 2015)

 - AIK 4–3 Falkenbergs FF (3 June 2015)
 - Malmö FF 4–3 Falkenbergs FF (23 September 2015)
 - BK Häcken 5–2 IF Elfsborg (25 October 2015)

 - IFK Göteborg 6–0 Örebro SK (2 August 2015)
 - Falkenbergs FF 6–0 Åtvidabergs FF (18 October 2015)

 - AIK 4–3 Falkenbergs FF (3 June 2015)
 - Malmö FF 4–3 Falkenbergs FF (23 September 2015)

 - IFK Norrköping

 - Halmstads BK

### Clean sheets

 - Most clean sheets: 14[26]
IFK Göteborg
 - Fewest clean sheets: 4[26]
GIF Sundsvall
Åtvidabergs FF
Örebro SK

 - IFK Göteborg

 - GIF Sundsvall
 - Åtvidabergs FF
 - Örebro SK

### Disciplin

 - Most yellow cards (club): 62[27]
Malmö FF
 - Most yellow cards (player): 9[27]
Marcus Rohdén (IF Elfsborg)
Daniel Sjölund (IFK Norrköping)
 - Most red cards (club):  5[28]
Åtvidabergs FF
 - Most red cards (player): 2[28]
Daniel Hallingström (Åtvidabergs FF)
 - Most fouls (player): 71[29][30]
Robin Simović (Helsingborgs IF)

 - Malmö FF

 - Marcus Rohdén (IF Elfsborg)
 - Daniel Sjölund (IFK Norrköping)

 - Åtvidabergs FF

 - Daniel Hallingström (Åtvidabergs FF)

 - Robin Simović (Helsingborgs IF)

## See also

 - 2015 Superettan
 - 2015 Division 1
 - 2014–15 Svenska Cupen
 - 2015–16 Svenska Cupen

 - 2015 AIK Fotboll season
 - 2015 BK Häcken season
 - 2015 Djurgårdens IF season
 - 2015 Hammarby Fotboll season
 - 2015 IFK Göteborg season
 - 2015 IFK Norrköping season
 - 2015 Malmö FF season



## References

 1. ^ a b "Skytteliga". The Swedish Football Association (in Swedish). The Swedish Football Association. Archived from the original on 6 July 2015. Retrieved 10 April 2015.

 2. ^ a b "Målvaktsliga". svenskfotboll.se (in Swedish). The Swedish Football Association. Retrieved 10 April 2015.

 3. ^ a b c d e f g h i j k l m "Spelprogram - Allsvenskan, herrar". svenskfotboll.se. The Swedish Football Association. Retrieved 10 April 2015.

 4. ^ a b c d "Allsvenskan". whoscored.com. Retrieved 11 August 2015.

 5. ^ a b "Publikliga". svenskfotboll.se. The Swedish Football Association. Retrieved 10 April 2015.

 6. ^ 27 January 2015. "Spelprogram för 2015". svenskfotboll.se (in Swedish). The Swedish Football Association. Retrieved 14 February 2015.

 7. ^ "Datum för Upptaktsträffarna 2015 klart!". svenskelitfotboll.se (in Swedish). Föreningen Svensk Elitfotboll. 2 February 2015. Retrieved 14 February 2015.

 8. ^ "Två miljoner har sett allsvenskan". svenskfotboll.se (in Swedish). 27 September 2015.

 9. ^ a b "Alla vinnare i Allsvenskans Stora Pris". allsvenskan.se. allsvenskan.se. Retrieved 5 November 2015.[permanent dead link]

 10. ^ a b "Allsvenskan" (in Swedish). The Swedish Football Association. Retrieved 6 November 2014.

 11. ^ "Olympia byggs om för 408 miljoner". svenskfotboll.se (in Swedish). The Swedish Football Association. 22 October 2014. Retrieved 6 November 2014.

 12. ^ "IFK bryter avtalet med Mikael Stahre". ifkgoteborg.se (in Swedish). IFK Göteborg. 3 November 2014. Archived from the original on 2014-11-03. Retrieved 3 November 2014.

 13. ^ "Lennartsson tar över IFK Göteborg". ifkgoteborg.se (in Swedish). IFK Göteborg. 25 November 2014. Archived from the original on 2015-09-24. Retrieved 26 November 2014.

 14. ^ "Henrik Larsson fortsätter inte i FFF". falkenbergsff.se (in Swedish). Falkenbergs FF. 10 November 2014. Archived from the original on 17 December 2014. Retrieved 10 November 2014.

 15. ^ "Hasse Eklund återvänder till Falkenberg". falkenbergsff.se (in Swedish). Falkenbergs FF. 26 November 2014. Archived from the original on 19 December 2014. Retrieved 26 November 2014.

 16. ^ a b "Henrik Larsson tillbaka i HIF". hif.se (in Swedish). Helsingborgs IF. 10 November 2014. Archived from the original on 2014-11-11. Retrieved 11 November 2014.

 17. ^ a b "Välkommen tillbaka Magnus Haglund". elfsborg.se (in Swedish). IF Elfsborg. 12 November 2014. Archived from the original on 12 November 2014. Retrieved 12 November 2014.

 18. ^ "Hasse Eklund lämnar Kalmar FF". kalmarff.se (in Swedish). Kalmar FF. 14 November 2014. Retrieved 14 November 2014.

 19. ^ "Ny tränare och nya spelare". kalmarff.se (in Swedish). Kalmar FF. 24 November 2014. Archived from the original on 26 December 2014. Retrieved 26 November 2014.

 20. ^ "Peter Swärdh och ÅFF går skilda vägar". atvidabergsff.se (in Swedish). Åtvidabergs FF. 15 November 2014. Retrieved 15 November 2014.

 21. ^ "Roar Hansen ny tränare och Pligg fortsätter". atvidabergsff.se (in Swedish). Åtvidabergs FF. 12 December 2014. Retrieved 12 December 2014.

 22. ^ a b "Janne Jönsson tar över HBK". hbk.se (in Swedish). Halmstads BK. 19 November 2014. Archived from the original on 29 November 2014. Retrieved 21 November 2014.

 23. ^ "Tävlingsbestämmelser år 2015" [Regulations 2015] (pdf) (in Swedish). Swedish Football Association. Retrieved 11 July 2015.

 24. ^ "Passningsliga". The Swedish Football Association (in Swedish). The Swedish Football Association. Archived from the original on 6 July 2015. Retrieved 10 April 2015.

 25. ^ "Matchinformation: Hammarby IF - BK Häcken". svenskfotboll.se (in Swedish). The Swedish Football Association. 4 April 2015. Retrieved 10 April 2015.

 26. ^ a b c d "Scoring". soccerstats.com. soccerstats.com. Retrieved 29 March 2014.

 27. ^ a b "Varningsliga". svenskfotboll.se. The Swedish Football Association. Retrieved 29 March 2014.

 28. ^ a b "Utvisningsliga". svenskfotboll.se. The Swedish Football Association. Retrieved 29 March 2014.

 29. ^ "Orsakat frispark". svenskfotboll.se. The Swedish Football Association. Retrieved 10 April 2015.

 30. ^ "Orsakat straff". svenskfotboll.se. The Swedish Football Association. Retrieved 29 July 2015.


## External links

